	Installing ObjectStore on HP/UX

Unfortunately, we've not had a chance to test this on a machine that
did not have AllegroCommonLisp installed.  This is the same
installation procedure as when installing ObjectStore during an
Allegro installation.

These instructions are copied almost verbatim from the AllegroCL
installation documentation.

In the instructions below <Allegro directory> refers to the directory
named "acl" extracted from the CONMAN installation kit.


*** Install ObjectStore:

The supported operating system version levels are:

     Solaris 2.5.1 and 2.6 
     HP-UX 10.20 
     SGI/IRIX 6.4 and 6.5 

Make sure the OS_ROOTDIR environmental variable is not set before
beginning the installation. The installation procedure will print an
error message telling you to un-set the OS_ROOTDIR variable if it is
set when you begin the installation.

The osinstal (one l) script starts the installation. You must be root to
run this script.

# cd acl/astore/ostore
# ./osinstal

When the osinstal script ends, it instructs you what to do next. When
running the osconfig step, calling osconfig with a server argument is
recommended for most users.


*** Set up the individual Runtime environments:

Note that the runtime environment setup described here is only
necessary for the user which will be running the CONMAN server.
You'll probably create a dummy userid for this or use bin or some
such.

Each user should update their environment appropriately for their use
of AllegroStore. The environment variables in the following table are
used by ObjectStore and you may wish to change them from their default
value. Variables required for proper AllegroStore operation are noted
in the following table; don't remove those.

       OS_ROOTDIR   [required]

The value of this variable should be the name of the root directory of
the ObjectStore installation. 

       AS_CONFIG_PATH   [required]

The value of this variable is the AllegroStore configuration
directory, which is in all cases the same as the <Allegro directory>.

       PATH    [required]

The value of this variable should include $AS_CONFIG_PATH and
$OS_ROOTDIR/bin. The value of this variable is set automatically on
Windows by the ObjectStore installation.

       OS_AS_SIZE    [optional]

Specifies the maximum size of the persistent virtual memory address
space.


The SHLIB_PATH environmental path must include the <Allegro
directory>, as well as /usr/lib. If the ObjectStore installation
choice that creates links in /usr/lib was not selected, then it must
also include the ObjectStore lib subdirectory, $OS_ROOTDIR/lib.

See the ObjectStore installation readme.txt file for information about
HP-UX patches recommended by ODI.
